---
title: "About"
---

Ansyble is a web app for online conversations. Unlike most other secure chat apps, Ansyble is built on the open web. This means that it is designed to produce a seamless cross-platform experience. For instance:

1. It's easy to get started: Just choose a username. There is no need for any association with phone numbers or emails.
2. Ansyble runs on any major browser (Chome, Firefox, or Safari), on either mobile or desktop, with no installation or downloads. The native app is entirely optional, as long as you have the URL ([ansyblemessenger.herokuapp.com/](ansyblemessenger.herokuapp.com/)).
3. Messages are synchronized in real-time between however many devices you happen to be using.
4. Message ciphers are saved on the cloud, so you can immediately access and search them from any of your devices.
5. By default, Ansyble saves no personal information to your device, so it is reasonably safe to use on a public device.
6. All communications and personal data are end-to-end encrypted. Nothing appears as plaintext to Ansyble except usernames and timestamps.
7. You can easily export messages to CSV/Excel. (For those who like Ansyble's interface, I am also working on some sort of JSON export with offline support.)
8. The interface is fast, simple, and optimized, designed to be minimal so as to host the maximal number of features.
9. Everything is open source, in one small HTML file you can access from your browser's development tools.

In short, there should be a simple, fast, and fully functional username-based messaging application built on the modern browser. I wasn't aware of one, so I made one.


#### Who are you?

I'm a random stranger on the internet who might know a bit about coding and cryptography. You can contact me at: ansyblenetwork@gmail.com

__Note:__ I'm only one person, with a separate day job. Expectations that align with this amount of manpower are mostly accurate.

#### Why can't I find Ansyble on Google?

I made Ansyble as an outlet during the crises of 2020. I'm not making any serious effort on SEO or promotion. Ansyble may or may not grow; if it does, it will have been mostly organically.

#### Does Ansyble make money?

No.

#### Is my data safe on Ansyble? Will it be here tomorrow, next week, next month, etc?

A legitimate concern. So far, Ansyble has been up and running since March 2020, or at least one year. I also use Ansyble myself.

At the time of writing, Ansyble is essentially free and effortless for me to run, so I have no reason to end the project. The only means by which this could change is if a lot of people suddenly started using Ansyble. Then, maintenance would be less free and effortless, but to my mind, such increased interest would only make me more inclined to continue the project.

In any case, I will make every effort to inform all users if support ends. (Until then, keep in mind that there is a convenient export-to-CSV/Excel function for your backup needs.)

#### Is my data safe FROM Ansyble?

Yes. All messages and personal data are end-to-end encrypted, and thus opaque to me and Ansyble. This is not just a default setting; there is no other setting.

#### How is Ansyble encrypted?

The protocol is essentially the Signal Protocol. However, unlike Signal, keys are stored on the cloud. These keys are encrypted using (a hash of) your password, so the end-to-end encryption is authentic. (However, this approach renders forward secrecy mostly meaningless. If you're paranoid, a true Signal Protocol option is available at login as well. In exchange, this option renders Ansyble's portability mostly meaningless.)

The cryptographic primitives are pulled from the state-of-the-art [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API).

__Note:__ I am aware of the concern about web app code integrity discussed [here](https://github.com/w3c/ServiceWorker/issues/822). Ansyble addresses this in what I believe is a novel way, which I will discuss in a future post.

#### Has a third party verified the encryption?

No. Ansyble is a one-person project and at the time of writing, essentially no one knows about it. 

However, the source code is always available to you (or any user) via your browser's development tools. If you're interested in the project and/or the encryption, I would be happy to discuss via email: ansyblenetwork@gmail.com

#### Wait...is the icon inspired by that well-known photograph, XYZ?

YES. Contact me!!
